Uh, professor, I think what's really
unusual here is if we go back to last
summer, we saw the United States did in
fact launch a military attack against
Iran. We had a very precise military
operation. Some fighter jets came in.
They bombed the nuclear facility. Now,
over the past 12 months, we've heard
multiple times Donald Trump repeating
that that the United States has
obliterated Iran's nuclear capability
that we it was such an amazing
accomplishment from the US military. I
mean, this is a a talking point repeated
over and over again from the Trump
administration. Why Why are we doing
this again if we've already destroyed
their nuclear capabilities? Is this just
another lie from Donald Trump? Has he
just been exposed? Or did last summer's
campaign really not do anything?
>> He lies
non-stop.
There's nothing that comes out of his
rambling mouth that makes sense. And
when he said last summer, "We've
destroyed this in the greatest mission
in the history of the world." Or maybe
it's the universe, uh, this was absurd,
tragic. Where do we start? Well, first
of all, Iran does not want a nuclear
weapon. And if we negotiated, if we
honestly negotiated rather than
repeatedly trying to destroy Iran,
overthrow its government, bomb Iran, and
actually if we followed through on
negotiations that were completed 10
years ago, okay, there wouldn't even be
an issue. But there is an issue because
the United States doesn't want to
negotiate. What it does is what Israel
wants it to do, which is to overthrow
the Iranian government. Well, not so
simple. Uh Iran is a country of more
than 90 million people. And the idea
that the United States says you're gone
and they're gone is completely
delusional of a delusional Israeli
government and a delusional US that is
somehow enthralled to the Israeli
government. When they bombed last
summer, what could it do? What did it
really do? Uh, it may have damaged a
sight or two, but Iran has enriched
nuclear material, not a bomb, but it has
enriched uranium. Why, by the way? Well,
it was abiding by strict limits until
Donald Trump ripped up the agreement in
2018. Then it started to inch up a
little bit above those agreements to
say, "Aren't you going to come back and
actually honor what you promised?" And
then Israel
absolutely recklessly attacked Iran at
its Natan's uh nuclear site. And so Iran
ratcheted up its enrichment. And then we
because we're just non-stop propaganda
say, "Oh, you see what the Iranians are
doing, not what Israel is doing,
attacking, assassinating Iranians,
threatening, not what the United States
is doing, ripping up agreements that
have already been negotiated." No. If
Iran does anything in response to say
you shouldn't do that, oh, you see how
evil they are. It's a game. It's a
propaganda game.
Because the real idea here is that
Israel wants military hegemony over the
Middle East. The roughly 10 million
people in Israel want or their
government leaders who are nasty people
want military hegemony over hundreds of
millions of people in the Middle East.
And they expect the United States to
deliver that. and our Congress is
completely sold out to this. So when
Trump mentions Iran in the State of the
Union,
the Congress on both sides, the
Republicans and the Democrats stand up
and cheer because they want to make sure
those campaign contributions come in.
And so this is what's going on. No, he
did not destroy a capacity that Iran
doesn't want, but bombing it for a few
days didn't destroy it at all. When they
did that, it was a cheat because, by the
way, if one recalls, we were in
negotiations last summer about the same
issue. And we were supposed to go to the
sixth round of negotiations,
which the US negotiators had
characterized as positive. And this was
supposed to take place in Oman. I think
it was June 15, uh, 2025, if I remember
the date correctly. And on June 12th,
just before the next round of
negotiations, Israel goes bomb to bomb
them and the United States says, "That's
great. We'll come in and we'll join you
in the bombing." I can't use the words
I'd like to use on your show. This is so
dangerous, reckless, and incoherent.
It's just hard to know where to start on
this. This is our lives. Is this the
planet on the line? And this is
absolutely it's not even juvenile
doesn't even put the right words on it.
It's just dangerous and reckless lies.
But you know, when you're enthralled to
an Israeli government that's just
murdered 80,000 people,
you can kind of understand there aren't
real limits.
>> Yeah, that's well said, professor. Um,
you know, as we're seeing this, I I
think very much we're seeing a very
similar playbook to the 2003 Iraq war.
You know, we we heard back then weapons
of mass destruction and this is why we
need to go into Iraq. Obviously, now
we're hearing that, you know, they're
one week away from developing a nuclear
bomb, which I think you've laid out very
clearly that that is not their
intention. So, who really benefits from
this escalation? You know, we see
consistent escalation every year and,
you know, rising tensions between the US
and Iran. Is it just is Israel just the
primary beneficiary? Is that really the
root of the problem here?
>> Israel isn't the beneficiary, but Israel
is the root cause of it. This is
Netanyahu. This is a lobby. Uh and it
works. And if you go back to the Iraq
war, it's extremely interesting. The
Iraq war was not a war on wrong
pretenses of weapons of mass
destruction. It was a war on false
pretenses, knowingly false. And the
campaign about weapons of mass
destruction was a PR job. It wasn't a
mistake. It wasn't faulty intelligence.
It was PR. And it was actually focus
grouped. In the fall of 2002, the
Pentagon did a PR exercise.
And who was that? That was a guy named
Doug Feith. uh one of these uh extreme
Zionist neocons
and he was the link to BB Netanyahu.
And one of the very interesting uh books
that came out of this criminal war uh is
a fantastic book by a real gentleman
named Dennis Fritz. Dennis Fritz was a
senior Air Force uh official who uh in
2002 was told to deploy to Iraq. He
said, "Iraq? Why should we be deploying
to Iraq?" And uh nobody could explain to
him why they were deploying to Iraq. So
Fritz said, "Look, I'm not leading my
troops into something when I can't even
explain to them why their lives are on
the line." So he resigned. resigned his
commission. Then Feith
real despic I don't know him personally
but despicable in the role that he's
played wanted to write a book
afterwards. So he wanted uh papers from
the Pentagon declassified. So they
needed a senior person who was
knowledgeable about declassification
to come in and read the background
documents and declassify them. And that
turned out to be what Dennis Fritz did.
So Fritz went back to the Pentagon in
2000 in I think 19
let me get it right in 2005 I think it
is and started reading the papers and
Fritz as he describes in this book
called Deadly Betrayal says holy
this this is this is not this is a PR
war. This is a inside job of Israel.
We're fighting for Israel and FTH is the
connection. And he asked me to
declassify these papers. I'm reading all
of this. I'm seeing all of this. This is
a war that was they had to figure out
how to sell a phony war to the American
people. So when you raise that point,
it's a great analogy,
>> right? The these are not wars fought
because we don't know what Iran is
doing. These are wars where they're
searching for some explanation that can
say to Trump's base, "Why am I doing the
opposite of what I promised you? Why am
I doing a war that has nothing to do
with America's interest? That has
nothing to do with make America great
again. That is purely for Israel. Why am
I doing this?" So, they're searching for
some answer. And then Trump says, "Oh,
they're developing ballistic missiles to
attack the United States." Again, there
are words I'd like to use on your show
that are utterly deserved by such
comments. Even our mainstream lamestream
media, which basically never reports
anything truthful because they follow
the government propaganda, is saying in
the last couple days, "No, this is not
true." So, the lies are just pouring out
right now. This is terrible. And I don't
know whether there'll be a war, but
there very well could be one by the
time, you know, we're finished talking
or by tomorrow morning when we wake up
or whatever.
>> I I I can feel the genuine concern in
your voice and um you know, and I I I
feel your sentiments exactly. I mean,
we're both US citizens. It's just very
concerning on on where the direction of
our country is going. Professor, I I I
have another follow-up to that. If we go
back to the campaign trail from Donald
Trump, he largely campaigned himself as
an anti-war president, a a president of
peace. He's been touting to telling
everyone that he deserves the Nobel
Peace Prize. He solved eight wall eight
wars last year, although that's not true
as well. But I mean, do you think that
this could potentially be a devastation
for his presidency? I mean, would would
is it not right wrong that most
Republicans are very much against this,
at least the fan base of Republicans? Is
this would this be the end of MAGA if if
he were to go to this to this length and
and actually start a war?
>> His presidency is failing step by step
though gradually. His approval rating is
now about 37% disapproval about 60%.
And people are wising up you know this
guy told us uh I'm going to charge those
other countries uh with with my tariffs.
And uh people are understanding, hey,
you didn't charge the other countries.
You charged me. And I paid on average a
thousand bucks every household in this
country. That's the average per
household. Not every household. The
average per household. And they're
wising up. You taxed me so you could
give the biggest tax giveaways to your
billionaire friends. So they're starting
to understand this. And we've got
thousands of lawsuits right now. I want
my money back. And Bessant, who's not
not a nice guy, not a decent guy, can't
see any decency. He says, "Oh, don't
expect they're going to see their money
back. They just stole it." So, how can
this be a successful presidency? People
don't like ICE shooting people in the
streets. Uh yesterday a student at
Columbia University was arrested out of
their dorm uh and then was released late
in the day because the everything about
the arrest was illegal. They lied about
everything. Uh they said they were
coming in to find a missing person,
plain clothes, lying, everything. People
don't like this.
We don't want to live in a police state.
We don't want to hear lies from our
president every day. We don't want to
pay taxes because this guy maybe
believes it. Who knows? But he thinks
they're taxing others. We're the ones
paying. We don't like that. And he has
no right to do it. And the Supreme Court
said, "No, you cannot impose taxes on
the American people, one person. That's
not how our constitutional system works.
That belongs to the Congress." So
now it's just been since the beginning
of the year completely unhinged. Okay,
let's arrest this president. We'll run
this country. He just said uh that I was
reading a wire the moment before we got
on that maybe we'll just take over Cuba
and bomb Iran at the same time. I don't
know if something has really come
completely unhinged. What it is, but
something's not right. really not right.
>> Yeah, it definitely seems that way. And
it seems that as Trump as we get near
closer to the midterm elections, it just
seems he's a little bit more of a loose
cannon. Uh you have no idea what
direction he's going to go. And like you
said, it could be we wake up tomorrow
and there's a big conflict or we've
launched another war or an invasion. Um
let's let's focus a little bit on Iran
right here. Do they have uh some type of
military capability to really hold back
um you know against the United States
military? Are we kind of underestimating
their power and the retaliation that
they could launch potentially in a in a
in a full conflict with the United
States?
>> Almost surely if there's a bombing for a
few days or a week or two, it will
accomplish nothing other than killing
people and generating a a response that
could get out of control. The idea that
it would lead to regime change and an
Americanimposed or Israeli imposed
government is complete fantasy.
Uh if Trump tried to put boots on the
ground, well, there are not the boots
and the soldiers there. Thank God for
him to try something like that. That
really would be the end of his
presidency immediately. So aerial
bombing, it's not going to do much
except possibly get completely out of
control. And Iran is not going to be
defeated in a few days of bombing. Maybe
people will die. Maybe there will be
suffering, but it's not going to be
defeated. It's a country of 90 million
people. It's got ballistic missiles.
It's got hypersonic missiles. uh it's
got the ability to close the straight of
Hormuz which uh is the waterway the
narrow passage in the Persian Gulf uh
through which about 20% of uh the
world's oil flows by uh the standard
accounting. So no uh
there is no strategy here. Uh and
generally the military gets these things
wrong. Uh we end up in massive debacles,
pushovers like Vietnam end up 10 years
and there no pushover at all. we end up
le leaving or Afghanistan or Iraq.
It's miscalculation from beginning to
end. And this seems like another
miscalculation uh that's underway right
now.
>> Yeah. Let's talk about Iran and you know
their alliances and their potential
allies here. Would we really look at
Iran as fully in the bricks, you know,
China Russia camp and or is that an
overstatement there? What are your
thoughts on
>> Well, they are in the bricks. The bricks
means uh the grouping that includes
Brazil, Russia, India, China, South
Africa, Egypt, Ethiopia, United Arab
Emirates, Iran, and Indonesia. And by
some count Saudi Arabia, not so clear.
Uh but 10 or 11 countries. Uh by the way
nearly half of the world population just
to mention um and absolutely Iran is in
the bricks and Iran is backed by uh
China and Russia and both Chinese and
Russian leaders have been telling the
United States don't do this it's not
good for you this will not play well
this will not go down well so absolutely
Iran would be supported
militarily. I don't think Russia and
China are going to join a war, but I
think that they're going to give support
to Iran. And um the military power that
the United States has apparently is good
for a couple of weeks or a few weeks of
bombing. It's not good for a long war.
Uh it's not the kind of massing of
troops for a long war. Uh it what we
read again I'm not in the room and I'm
not a military expert but we read that
uh the joint chiefs of staff have
advised Trump that his aims cannot be
achieved by this attack. But you know
when you balance the American people are
completely against it. The top brass of
the military is against it. Uh Trump's
base is against it. the uh political
advisers to Trump uh are against it, but
BB is for it. So the way the American
political system works is probably a
slam dunk for war.
>> Yeah, we we definitely see the
tremendous influence from Israel as you
pointed out. Obviously Netanyahu is very
adamant on controlling that region. We
also we also heard Huckabe who is the US
ambassador to Israel actually say
something quite extraordinary last week
saying that he would not mind if Israel
controls the entire region of the Middle
East. Uh which obviously prompted a
response from Saudi Arabia that said
absolutely not. You know there's
obviously many independent and sovereign
nations that compose the Middle East. I
mean, is this I mean, this is just you
probably can't find a more pro-Israel
um you know, politician than than
Huckabe, who's over there currently
serving as our US ambassador. Um it is
remarkable just the propaganda that's
coming out right now.
Hakabe is a um a representative of
so-called Christian Zionists, which
means a a
a strain of evangelical Protestants who
read a verse in Genesis chapter 15 uh
where it says that God promised uh the
land from the river of Egypt to the
river, the great river of the Euphrates
to uh Abraham's seed. Uh now uh
where to start?
>> First, he doesn't understand anything
about the Bible. I'm sorry to say
because uh if you just stick on pure
theological grounds of the Old
Testament,
it says throughout the entire Old
Testament, you screw up, you lose that.
This is a covenant. This isn't a deed.
This is a covenant. And how many
prophets
tell the uh the kings of Israel, you are
losing the land. you're going into
exile. This is, by the way, the opposite
of what's called rabbitic Judaism, the
Jewish tradition for 2,000 years, which
told Jews, you stay where you are and
just behave. This is the Messiah could
bring you back to the Holy Land, but not
some
militant nationalist. So, it's
completely against what Judaism taught
for 2,000 years. Then you listen to real
theologians. It's completely against the
New Testament because the New Testament
uh Jesus is the successor of that
covenant according to the New Testament.
And in the New Testament, Jesus says
that the promise of salvation is those
who believe in me. It's not given to one
particular group. And this is very clear
and it's clear in the letters of Paul.
It's clear in in Roman 11 and Galatians.
It's it's everything theologically is
wrong with what Huckabe said. It's kind
of a kindergarten mistake. But then
there's actually the world too that we
learned over the course of centuries
going to war over someone's uh reading
of a line in the scriptures not a great
idea. Uh it was a bloodshed in Europe
for hundreds of years and they finally
said okay we're not going to fight on
biblical passages. Huckabe is a
throwback centuries ago. He's a He
should have been dismissed the moment
such ignorance came out of his mouth.
But the truth is that that's a lot of
Trump's voter base. And so this is the
weird part. Our government is in the
hands of the Zionist lobby. And it means
one war after another. And it's
absolutely not in America's interest.
That's it. Yeah, that's a very
interesting uh segment there, professor,
because I I haven't heard the
theological um actual just the the logic
behind that. And it's you're spot on. I
mean, that from the Old Testament to the
New Testament. You did a great job
breaking that down. Thank you for doing
that. Um I' I'd like to ask a little bit
more broad question. Uh what is the
biggest misconception that most
Americans have about Iran? What should
what should more Americans know about
this country so that they better
understand the situation?
Well, I'd say a couple of things. First,
uh it is a civilization that's 5,000
years old. So, it's a very proud, very
wonderful civilization that has made
huge contributions
in world history. Of course, it was
called Persia in its old kingdoms. One
of the Persian kings, Cyrus, is viewed
in the Old Testament basically is even
used the word Messiah of the Jewish
people because it's Cyrus who returns
the exiled people that were exiled by
the Babylonians back to Jerusalem to
reestablish the temple in Jerusalem. So,
he's hailed for this. Now, uh this is
the first point. This is not uh it's
it's not a little pushover uh island
that's going to drop into America's
hands. Uh and uh it it is a a great
nation with a a history uh tens of times
longer than the United States history.
So this is a first point. Second, Iran
has been trying to negotiate with the
United States for at least 15 years. I
know it. I speak to the Iranians. I
speak to the Americans. I hear all of
this because I work at the UN and I talk
at length and have for 15 years. They're
trying to negotiate. They negotiated
an agreement that would have absolutely
done what Trump claims he wants to do,
which is to make sure that Iran doesn't
have nuclear weapons. They negotiated
that. It's called the joint
comprehensive plan of action. It was
negotiated in the summer of 2015. There
were six parties to those negotiations,
including Iran, I'm sorry, plus Iran.
The six were the five permanent members
of the security council. So the United
States, Britain, France, uh, Russia and
China, plus Germany makes six, and Iran
on the other side. And it put the UN
International Atomic Energy Agency right
there to make sure that there was no
breakout to nuclear weapons. Of course,
I have to always add, the Iranians said,
"We don't want them." But the the
inspectors will be there. Trump being
Trump,
illogical,
stupid, sorry,
getting it wrong every time and
listening to BB who's not stupid, just
nasty, nasty, and dangerous, ripped up
the agreement in 2018.
So people should understand after that
the Iranians said we want to return to
negotiating.
>> The US and Israel want to overthrow the
government. That's different. That's not
about the nuclear issues. That's about
Israel's hegemony in the Middle East.
Who cares for that? Why doesn't Israel
live within its own borders and stop
making a mess for all the rest of us?
That's what it should do.
And that's what this whole issue is.
Israel should live within its own
borders. There should be a state of
Palestine next door
living within its borders. And Israel
should not be trying to overthrow the
government of Iran. It's then there
could be peace in the region.
>> Yeah. And by the way, when Rubio said a
couple of weeks ago, no, no, no, we need
to negotiate the big picture, the
Iranian foreign minister Raji gave a
speech on the big picture. He did that
in Doha and it was a absolutely uh uh
coherent
and interesting and intelligent speech.
It was grounds for real negotiation. It
wasn't even reported in our media.
>> Wow.
>> It's incredible. Not even reported. They
want peace. They want to negotiate. They
don't want nuclear weapons. But we can't
take yes for an answer. This gang.
And the reason is that Israel is not
interested in negotiations. Israel's
interested in hegemony in the region, in
dominance, in overthrowing the Iranian
government.
>> Uh, professor, thank you so much uh for
all of these amazing insights. I I do
have one final question. Um, and it
would be, you know, I know that you've
spoken at the UN for many years. You you
travel around the world speaking to
governments and organizations. You do an
incredible job. If you were advising the
White House today, what would your plan
of action be for the next 90 days in
order to achieve this peace that we
need?
>> First, I would tell them to stand down
because they could achieve exactly the
agreement with Iran that they want.
Second, I would say end the wars in the
Middle East by stop stopping the US veto
on a state of Palestine. The US is the
only barrier to peace right now in the
Middle East. Strange to say that, of
course, Israel's against a state of
Palestine, but they can't stop it. The
only one that can stop it is the United
States, and the US used its veto in the
UN Security Council to stop it. I would
say stop that veto. Third, I would say,
for God's sake, Mr. President, don't put
on a new round of tariffs. You've made
enough of a mess.
>> Give back the 140 billion that you took
from us through your abuse of power, but
don't put on another tariff on phony
grounds. This section 122 that they're
using right now is illegal the same way.
>> Right?
>> So, don't even dig deeper.
And finally, I would say don't tamper
with the election in November. not with
the election machines. Don't even think
about it. Don't even think about
federalizing this election. These
elections will be run the way America
runs them at by the state level
everywhere without you intervening.
These are the most important points for
America.